OK this is it.
Or finally going to disgrace a real web site.
We're not working with dummy data anymore.
We've learned enough about beautiful soup on its own.
Now we're going to connect it with requests and we're going to write to see history file.
So what's our task.
Well as I mentioned before in the intro video to the section Scraping is a kind of delicate issue.
I'm not I don't feel comfortable sending however many thousands of students to go scrape you know some
well-known website where I could be liable for something that they did and I want to be the person who
encourages people to do something that those sites may disapprove of.
So we are going to scrape a site that I 100 percent know we have permission to scrape because it's a
site that I've helped make.
So this is the blog for rhythm's school.
I won't go into full advertising mode but it's a boot camp that I help out at and they have a blog that
has a bunch of posts on it and we're just going to scrape these posts.
They're in a very easy to extract format and all that we'll do is we'll scrape through and grab the
title and they'll link as well as the date and then we'll store all of them in a CACP file so we'll
scrape all of them on this page.
There you are al by the way.
All repeat this in the video it's rhythm's school dot com slash blog.
So whatever we do here what we do here will apply to other Web sites that may or may not approve of
scraping but this one absolutely does.
So we don't have to worry.
So our goal scrape data into a CSP file We're going to grab all links from rhythm schools blog and then
we're going to store that you know the text inside the anchor tag and a date.
So let's get started.
I have a brand new file called blague scraping up why.
And let's just get our dependencies in here so we're going to need to import.
Well first thing Lamport is requests because we're going to need to make a request to this you are well.
So that's first then we're going to get beautiful soup from B-S for import Tafel soup.
And while we're up here we'll import CSB.
So the order of things is that we're going to make the request get the response back.
Take the team Shall we get back send it to beautiful soup then navigate through that extracts the info
we want and write it to a file using CXVII.
It's a lot but it actually won't take that much code.
So let's start with a very simple stewe response equals requests don't get.
And then this you know is a string.
And let's just start by printing response and if we just print response for this get a response object
if we want to see the actual body the stuff that comes back we need to do dot text.
Let's just make sure we get him back when we run it and I might take a moment.
There we go.
This looks good to me.
This is all Timo.
So you can see it here.
And this is not ideal to try and figure out what we want we could find the articles in here.
I'm sure if we looked hard enough looks like here's one of the article here.
Yeah.
There we go.
There's a section heading Here's a link the title.
And here's a date that is just not how we want to go about it because this is very difficult to actually
read and kind of understand in this terminal.
So what we do instead is go to the you are self and visited and open up the developer tools.
What we're trying to extract to start is the title.
So each title here we can just find one.
They all follow the same pattern.
So right click and then go to inspect and then this opens up the developer tools and you can see see
if we can make this bigger for you.
It is an anchor tag.
And even before that you can see it.
Each article here each blog post is enclosed in an article element.
So there's that type of NHT e-mail tag called an Article.
So each one of those what we're going to want to do is just select all of these articles on the page
and then for each article we're going to want to select the age for and the anchor tag inside of that
we'll save the URL and we'll also save that text instead of the title.
And then finally to get the date you could look in here let's see you'd probably right click here.
This is one place where the date is stored and this is pretty common that you might find more than one
place to find the date.
For example here it is on the page.
But then here is this time element that has a date time set to 2018 January 2nd 2018.
This doesn't show up on the page if you actually click on it.
Is it showing up anywhere.
I don't think so.
No it's just metadata that is basically encoded with this article.
So we can grab it from here.
This is easy or we could grab it from here but this isn't a nice date time format.
This is more English formatted.
OK.
So that's our game plan.
We're going to select all articles and we'll start there.
Then for each article we're going to select the anchor tag inside the page for us.
There might be more than one anchor tag that might be the only one we'll play around and see if that's
the only one will be nice and easy and then we'll select the left to get that you are.
So each link.
And then also select the title as well as a date which is in div class card.
All right.
So this process is really common.
You have a site you want to scrape.
You just have to understand the structure first because the scraping is just you telling it where to
look.
Where should your Python code look in the HMO.
Well you have to know first in order to direct it.
So back here we're now going to send this response that text and send it over to beautiful soup and
send it.
I mean we're going to instantiate a new instance.
So let's just call this soup.
It goes to beautiful soup and then will pass in response to that text.
And then remember this sort of annoying thing is Tim Al-Kut parser as a string and we can get rid of
this.
And then with the soup we should be able to do something like soup.
And if we want to find all article tags it just find all article.
So let's save that to a variable called articles and then just print articles.
OK.
So we're requesting this euro.
We get him back.
We give it to beautiful soup.
We tell us please parse this.
Take it from a string.
Turn it into Tim object or turn it into objects in Python.
And then we can call find all one of the built in methods on that result of soup.
Find articles and ideally we'll have them all in a collection.
Let's see béclère this takes a moment.
And if we look all right we have a list.
You can see the bracket down here and if we scroll way up probably here there's a lot of text here.
Here's the beginning.
But you can see we're getting every article as well as all the inclosing information in each article.
So here's this is one article right there.
Awesome.
Now what we want to do is for each article let's just start with the title which as you can see is located
in the anchor tag.
And then it's the text inside that anchor tag.
So because it's the first anchor tag as well as the is it the only one.
No there's another one here but it's the first one we can just called Dot find rather than find all.
So a loop through articles however you'd like.
But for article in articles let's just print and we're going to do something like article for each individual
one does find an anchor tag.
And that's going to give us the whole anchor tag if we print that.
See what happens.
Now all right so we're getting all the anchor tags what we want is the text inside.
And remember we saw a method to do that dot get text as a method and no moment of truth.
Awesome look we're getting all the titles.
How exciting.
I actually haven't gone through it deliberately didn't go do this ahead of time and know the solution
because I wanted to show the process of identifying the information you want to scrape.
So I am very relieved that it worked OK.
So that gets us the text that gives us the title so we could I don't know make a variable to start and
just call it title equals article about find a get text.
Remember we're trying to find title.
We also want to find the date and we want to find the ATF the URL for the article.
OK.
And then we're going to take all of them and add them to a file that we haven't done yet.
Next let's actually go with the ref.
The attribute on the same anchor tag.
So we're going to do article about find out get text and then we could do article but find again anchor
tag and use the this syntax to find a Tref or there's adder's that we saw if you just print that that
suit we get there we go.
It's just full of ATF.
So you could do this Todd adder's a Tref but there's a shorter syntax which is just to directly use
a ref like this.
And we run it now.
Perfect.
So we're now getting each you RL But instead of searching or doing article to find twice it would be
better to just do it in a variable like let's go with a a tag equals that article about find a.
And then here we can do a tag get text and then same thing here.
Replace this a tag a Tref and now it should just get a list of eight drafts.
Good.
Nothing changed.
And let's save that to variable and just call it a ref equals a tag.
Or how about you throw.
And then we have the last one which is the date and remember the date.
If we go back here is inside the article if this is one article here.
It's not inside the H for it's not inside that anchor tag but it is inside this time element.
So we can just to find time always trying to find the time.
Very funny.
So we can do it instead of a tag what we want to reference is article but find the time element.
The first one I think there's only one in there.
In each article.
And let's just print what we get
what happens awesome.
So that gets us this far.
And now what we want is the value of the date time attribute which is exactly the same.
Or we can use the same syntax we could do.
TR s or just directs the access date time as a string.
And if I do that now I assume are getting the date.
And now let's just save that variable Let's call that date like that perfect.
And before we actually go ahead and deal with cxxviii let's just do a simple print of title and then
you URL and then date like this for each one.
And let's just make sure it works it looks good.
So we're getting the title we're getting the URL and then we're getting the date.
And you can see you know these things are that you are Ellas correct at least New Year's resolutions
is the title and the URL is blogsite New Year's resolutions.
And we can just trust that the data is correct because we're working inside the same article.
So we're only burrowing deeper into the article that makes sense.
Everything is collected inside each article tag.
So we've actually finished the scraping portion.
We've requested the page we've found the data we want.
Now we're just going to write it to a file and this will actually be review.
So we have CXXVI and I'm going to do it here.
We'll start with opening a file that it doesn't exist yet let's just call it blog data.
Dot cxxviii and we need to open that as a right with the right mode as.
And let's call it CSB file.
And then we need to writer equals the writer or I actually prefer to do from cxxviii import writer so
we could use a dict writer but we have our data here would be easiest just to put it in a list in my
opinion.
So we'll just do this from CSP import writer and then we'll say story writer equals writer and then
we need to give it the file.
If this is confusing make sure you don't have to of course but it would help to go back and rewashed
that section.
But this is the syntax you give it a file call writer which is the function here that gives us the CSP
writer with that file bug data.
And then I just call writer dot right row and let's start by writing the headers so we give it a list
and the headers.
Let's go with title and link and then date.
And let's just verify.
We'll even comment out the requests.
Let's just make sure that we end up with the file and the headers are in there.
And it says object has no attribute right row.
And that would be because there is nothing called writer.
I mean that's the name of the function.
But we need to call it on CSB writer.
Hopefully you saw that before me.
And now if we look let's open up the log data see history file.
All right so we have our headers in there.
Now all we have to do is actually add in all the data that we've requested.
Let's begin by just commenting this.
And then what we need to do is indent all this code.
First of all so that we're doing it while the file is open.
If we're going to use a with statement so we want to do it while it's open we write the headers and
then we're going to loop through articles we extract the data we want.
And then instead of printing we're just going to call CSP writer dot right row and then we have a list
because that's how I see every writer works for not using dict writer.
And I just pass in our variables so we have title we need to match the order we defined our peers or
title comma you are l.
That's the name I went with.
And then date and the moment of truth is so exciting.
What happens didn't mess anything up and sweet.
So we have a cxxviii file now we've successfully scraped data.
I know it's not the most exciting data ever but just use your imagination replace this with some juicy
hard to obtain data that doesn't have an API and you can see how this can quickly become useful.
So we've got title linking date.
Just take a look.
Here's our first title.
Here's the comma and then the date that you are l the link and then the date and we grabbed all this
from a web page making a real request and getting data back.
Fun stuff.
And if you want an extra challenge.
One thing you could try right now we're only scraping whatever's on the front page but there are at
least what five pages right now.
Maybe more I'm not sure.
They might truncate how many show up.
Now there's five pages of blog posts and you might want to automate it to that.
It starts here on this first page and it grabs all of these links because each one of these is a link
and this is where we get into web crawling.
So you would.
What are these listed as Looks like they're called the page.
I think I accidentally clicked on it.
Try one more time.
Can see.
Yes.
These are spans of the class he called a page currents.
These are span's and inside there there's an a tag that says previous.
So we do something like search for all Spanta to have classic little page then grab that you are ill.
So this is the home page slash blog but the next one should be slash blog question mark page equals
three and four.
And also if you knew that it was just a number incrementing we could do it programmatically and just
have a variable called counter and keep adding one until we don't get a response until we get a negative.
Good you know for a 4 or something if I tried to request page 70 then we would stop and then for each
result we get back we would then scrape the articles if that makes sense.
So you kind of loop you get all of these you or else you figure out which you or else you want to scrape
and then you just loop through and call each one.
But to be polite it's best to put in a delay.
So you're not going one after another with you know a millisecond in between.
Anyway that is a fun challenge if you want to try it out.